# Response to Blumenstock
Isabella DiFulvio

January 27, 2020

The intersection of human development and data science has potential to benefit many people in developing areas or in areas struck by disasters. However, issues arrise when there is a disconnect between the people and the data. The idea of "good intent" is not enough to ensure that data is being used accurately without "bolstering those who are already empowered." This is because data can be misinterpreted and exploited by those who want to take advantage of aid. To truely ensure data is being used correctly, there needs to be more more transparancy in regards to who is obtaining these resources. Blumenstock mentions internships, fellowships, years abroad and other ways to "deepen collaboration" between data scientists and the people reflected within the data. Deeper connections between data scientists and the people would certainly help with transparancy and observing how data patterns are actually reflected in the real world. Furthermore, balancing the large potential that comes with using data science and the hindrances is certainly difficult, but progression takes trial and error. Brainstorming potential errors and mishaps can only do so much in error prevention, so one can only be certain of the outcome after trial and error. However, it is important to minimize the repetition of errors. Therefore, real people need to be observed, and there needs to be a connection between data scientists and the people behind the data. 
